# Ransomware-Detection-Using-Process-Memory
## Project-Summary
The proposed method of ransomware detection involved exploring the different memory regions that occur in process memory. The process model starts with capturing the process's memory using the Cuckoo Sandbox (Guarnieri, 2014). Thereafter, Cuckoo runs a default reporting module that analyses the collected memory dump and produces a raw report with each memory region from process memory along with metadata. The access privileges that are occurring in each memory region are captured from each region. These privileges include Read (r), Read/Write (rw), Read/Execute (rx), Read/Write/Copy (rwc), Read/Write/Execute (rwx) and Read/Write/Execute/Copy (rwxc). The privileges determine what operations and what types of data are stored in memory to help find patterns in subroutines that can be attributed to specific operations. For example, if a segment within the memory region has an access privilege of rx and the type is code, this could be a subroutine involved with reading a file and then performing some computation on it. However, the privilege levels include several aspects, and one of the most interesting and rarely seen privileges is rwxc. Using this highest privilege level could mean that the executable can persist, extract, and execute code in memory. On the other hand, Read/Write/Execute (rwx) could indicate a dynamic subroutine-like encryption cipher. Process memory consists of many segments within a memory region and therefore the approach adopted in this research is a summation of each segment's privileges per memory region. Once the data has been collected, the next phase is to conduct the Machine Learning (ML) exploratory phase, which involves exploring various ML techniques for classification. The techniques this study explored are classifiers such as decision tree, random forest, gradient boost, XGBoost, tree ensemble, neural network, Naïve Bayes, and support vector machine (Fernando et al., 2020). These algorithms were tested to see which provides the best accuracy in detecting ransomware and produces the least number of false negatives.

## Conclusion
Process memory was utilized for ransomware detection with the dataset comprising 937 records from 117 ransomware and 354 benign samples. The study observed, by leveraging several machine learning algorithms, that process memory does provide very meaningful information to assist with ransomware detection, and accuracy scores of between 93.62 and 96.28% were obtained, with the best performing model being XGBoost.
